Brazilian jiu-jitsu, often abbreviated to BJJ, is a self-defense martial art and combat sport based on grappling, ground fighting, and submission holds. 
It is primarily a ground-based fighting style and focuses on taking one's opponent down to the ground, gaining a dominant position, and using a number of techniques to force them into submission via joint locks, chokeholds, or compression locks. 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu was first developed around 1925 by Brazilian brothers Carlos, Oswaldo, Gastão Jr., and Hélio Gracie, after Carlos was taught Kodokan judo by a travelling Japanese judoka, Mitsuyo Maeda, in 1917. 
Later on the Gracie family developed their own self-defense system which they named Gracie Jiu-Jitsu. 
BJJ eventually came to be its own defined combat sport through the innovations, practices, and adaptation of Gracie jiu-jitsu and judo, and has become one of the essential martial arts for modern MMA. 
BJJ revolves around the concept that a smaller, weaker person can successfully defend themselves against a bigger, stronger opponent by using leverage and weight distribution, taking the fight to the ground and using a number of holds and submissions to defeat them. 
Sparring, commonly referred to as "rolling" within the BJJ community, and live drilling plays a major role in the practitioner's development. 
In contrast to some other martial arts BJJ can be practiced both using a gi uniform or not which is known as 'no-gi BJJ', for this purpose rash guards are used. 
The International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) is the main governing body of the martial art, establishing the rules and general guidelines, as well as promoting competitions and training of referees. 
BJJ can also be used as a method of promoting physical fitness, building character, and as a way of life. 
While grappling such as judo or wrestling uses the upper body to hold and subdue the opponent, this is a martial art that uses the legs to wrap around the opponent. 
The opponent is subdued by wrapping the legs around the neck, shoulders, torso, hips, thighs by applying weight, push, pull, or rotate, mainly from leg wrapping or some upperbody strength. 
Since the core of Jiu-Jitsu is leg wrapping, when you meet an opponent who has trained Jiu-Jitsu and also want to compete them in a grappling way, if you first subdue one of your opponent's legs to prevent him from wrapping his leg, it will be difficult for him to exert force. 
Also, since the goal of Jiu-Jitsu is to create a so-called 2 on 1 or 4 on 1 situation where you subdue one of your opponent's arms with your own two arms or wrap the opponent's entire body around your legs, it is better to prevent such situations in advance. 
In the case where an opponent has already his legs wrapped around your torso, which is a common situation in Jiu-Jitsu, it is easy to escape by applying force to one side of the opponent's hip. 
If an opponent approaches you while sitting, it is good to push him away from either side as if rolling a ball.